Add Lyft recap post (#379)
trinodb/trino.io: _posts/2022-12-12-trino-summit-2022-lyft-recap.md

---
layout: post
title: "Trino for large scale ETL at Lyft"
author: "Charles Song, Ritesh Varyani, Brian Olsen"
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
image: /assets/blog/trino-summit-2022/lyft.jpg
---
Buckle up, for the next [post in the Trino Summit 2022 recap series]({% post_url
2022-11-21-trino-summit-2022-recap %}). In this post, we're covering the talk
given by Lyft engineers, Charles and Ritesh, on how they have not only scaled
Trino for more usage, but also with less nodes and more effective usage. They
also started moving to utilizing Trino more for ETL rather than just interactive

> analytics. You don't want to miss your driver for this post.

Author: was trying to make a play on words for Lyft driver

> analytics. You don't want to miss your driver for this post.

Author: fixed

<!--more-->

{% youtube FL3c1Ue7YWM %}

<a class="btn btn-pink btn-md" target="_blank" href="/assets/blog/trino-summit-2022/Trino@Lyft.pdf">
  Check out the slides here!
</a>

## Recapping

Lyft is uses Trino to perform ETL jobs reading 10 petabytes of data per day and
writing 100 terabytes per day. They run 250,000 queries per day, with around
2,000 unique users. This requires approximately 750 EC2 instances scaling up or
down with an auto-scalar. Over 90 percent of queries run within a one to three
minutes. 

In the last year, Lyft cut their number of Trino nodes in half, while increasing
the volume of their workloads due to recent improvements in Trino and upgrades
in Java versions. Lyft does not using fault-tolerant execution, but has started
seeing interest in using Trino for ETL jobs due to the faster turnaround. Some
issues Lyft has faced has been around how resource hungry Trino is, as well as,
the issue where the coordinator can be a single point of failure for queries
executing on a cluster.

Lyft was one of the earliest companies to really push using Trino for ETL use
cases. They built custom best effort rollback code in Airflow. If a query

> failed, the operation would revert to the state before the operation began. Lyft

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fails, the operation reverts to the state before the operation began. Lyft
```

> runs four ETL Trino clusters split by the type of workload used on that cluster.

Reviewer: so they are all ETL .. but still different workload?

Author: Nope, I removed ETL ahead of Trino

> The best practices Lyft has found is careful usage around broadcast joins, query

Reviewer: practices are
